+++
title = "CFP: Rust Education Workshop 2022"
+++

## Call For Participation

*Conference Date:* [Saturday 20 August 2022](#schedule)  
*[Registration](#participating) Paper or Talk Proposal Deadline:* Tuesday 16 August 2022 (your time)  
*[Registration](#participating) Statement Deadline:* Wednesday 17 August 2022 (your time)

The [Rust-Edu](http://rust-edu.org) Org is pleased to
announce the 2022 Rust Education Workshop, a one-day virtual
meeting to discuss the future of Rust education. If you are
involved with Rust in an educational capacity, or would like
to be, we would love to have you [participate](#participating) and
share. Lecturers and professors, Rust authors and trainers,
developers of tools supporting Rust learning, Rust language
developers looking to improve learnability, and anyone
trying to expand the scope and quality of Rust learning and
teaching are especially welcome.

The Workshop will be recorded for later public viewing; the
Workshop Proceedings will be published online.

### Topics

Topics of interest to us include (but are not limited to):

* The future of Rust as a language of choice in college CS
  education. We are particularly interested in the use of
  Rust as a teaching language in courses that are not
  directly language related: for example operating systems,
  networking, or embedded programming. We are also
  interested in the future potential of Rust as an early CS
  teaching language.

* Tool-driven and content-driven methods for improving Rust
  learning in general: for example tools for improving Rust
  code understanding, enhancements to existing tools to aid
  Rust learnability, or Rust teaching and tutoring content
  and frameworks.

* Possible enhancements to the Rust language and Rust
  Project tooling to improve learnability.

### Schedule
Saturday 20 August 2022 [07:00 AM Pacific Time](https://www.inyourowntime.zone/2022-08-20_07.00_America.Los_Angeles)

* **Introductions (7:00 - 7:30)**

  * 7:00 - 7:10: *Intro To Rust-Edu* — Massey

  * 7:10 - 7:30: Group Introductions

* **Session 1 - Experiences with Teaching Rust (7:30 - 9:00)**

  * 7:30 - 7:50: *Imagining Introductory Rust* — Bohrer

  * 7:50 - 8:10: *Experience Report: Two Semesters of Teaching
    Rust, Five Programming Assignments for Rust* — Fluet

  * 8:10 - 8:30: *Paradigm Problems: A Case Study on
    `rebalance`* — Crichton

  * 8:30 - 9:00: Small + large group discussion

* **Break (9:00 - 9:15)**

* **Session 2 - Tools for Teaching Rust (9:15 - 10:45)**

  * 9:15 - 9:35: *Experiences of Teaching Rust and Code Recommendation
    To Assist Rust Beginners* — Xu

  * 9:35 - 9:55: *The Book & Rustlings Adaptation By
    JetBrains*  — Bragilevsky

  * 9:55 - 10:15: *RustViz: Interactively Visualizing
    Ownership and Borrowing*  — Omar

  * 10:15 - 10:45: Group Discussion

* **Long Break (10:45 - 11:30)**

* **Session 3 - Rust and OS (11:30 - 12:30)**

  * 11:30 - 11:50: *The Pluggable Interrupt OS: Writing a
    Kernel in Rust* — Ferrer

  * 11:50 - 12:10: *An Online Debugging Tool for Rust-based
    Operating Systems*  — Chen, Yu, Li, Wu

  * 12:10 - 12:30: Group Discussion

* **Open-Ended Discussion (12:30 - 1:00)**

### Participating

The Rust Education Workshop is free-of-charge: the price of
Workshop attendance is a submission describing your
interests. You may submit one of the following:

* A maximum one-page PDF on a topic broadly related to Rust
  education. We are calling it a "statement", but it could
  be an experience report, could advocate something, could
  describe your interests: really anything relevant goes.

  The statement will be reviewed for suitability and
  accepted statements will be published as part of the
  Workshop Proceedings. Statements should have a title and
  the author(s) name and contact email. We are not too
  concerned about the format, but it would be good to
  roughly follow the style of the sample
  [here](/workshop/statement-template.pdf) when preparing
  the PDF.

* PDF of slides for a 20-minute proposed talk on a topic
  related to Rust education. Applicants may be asked to
  present their talk at the Workshop, as the Workshop
  schedule permits.

* A PDF paper of up to five pages to be refereed by the
  conference organizers. Please use our LaTeX template and start
  with our sample paper [here](paper-format-latex/).

  Applicants of accepted papers will be asked to present a
  20-minute talk at the Workshop as above if the Workshop
  schedule permits. Accepted papers will be published in the
  Workshop Proceedings.

To participate in the Workshop, please email your name
including preferred pronouns, contact information including
email and phone number, submission materials, and agreement
to abide by the Workshop Code of Conduct (see below) to
`workshop-f2022-submit@rust-edu.org`.

By submitting to the Workshop, you agree to grant Rust-Edu
an unlimited, non-exclusive, perpetual right to publish and
distribute your submission materials.

### Program Committee

* Bart Massey, Portland State University
* Will Crichton, Brown University
* Cyrus Omar, University of Michigan

### Code of Conduct

Please review the [Code of Conduct](code-of-conduct) for
this Workshop, borrowed from the RustConf Code of Conduct.
Workshop participants are required to abide by the Code of
Conduct.
